and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show i'm your host sam
dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and today i'm joined by rishi rawat
rishi is the owner over at
frictionlesscommerce.com
his company exists for one reason and
one reason alone
to optimize the conversion rates of your
shopify store rishi a warm welcome to
the show sir how's it going i'm i'm
great i'm super excited to be chatting
with you today and i'm i'm looking
forward to some unexpected questions
awesome man two two web guys two
marketers nerding out and sharing their
hopefully puzzle wisdom let's uh let's
see what we can wrestle up
so um we're gonna be chatting all about
the the nine bias psychology copywriting
lessons so everyone tuning in can
radically improve their their marketing
their content writing skills and
the ins the outs the how's the whys of
why these things are important so first
and foremost
why is copywriting what's the big deal
about copywriting rishi can't we just
throw together a few words on our
website hope for the best and a few few
sales a few leads will come in right
yeah yeah you'll get that's that's
exactly right you'll get a few sales and
a few leads um and i think all of us
want more than a few sales and a few
leads i think it's it's you know we are
in unprecedented times because the power
of the consumer has grown so radically
that um what is happening is and if you
look at broad data this is the thing
this is the doomsday scenario is that if
you actually look at broad data and you
look at you look at data for your own
website you will find not only are
people spending a minuscule amount of
time on the website but those numbers
are going down every year
and um you know if you are selling a
complicated product most of us are
selling something that is can't be
bought in the first 20 seconds um
then you need more time and i think one
of the traps that marketers have
followed have fallen into is they say
look i know i have a minute to close the
sale so the way i'm going to close that
sale is i'm going to try and compress as
much information as i can in that one
minute i can i'm going to scream as
loudly as i can
and our thesis is that if you can
connect with the psychology the
subconscious psychology of the buyer the
buyer will want to spend more time and
through that mechanism you can persuade
and influence them
yeah yeah yeah and on that note why do
you think that the time limit is so
short rishi do you think that is because
people's attention spans dropping do you
think it's because
every year more and more competitors are
coming about in each each space so we've
got less time to engage attract steal
the attention or is it something else
yeah it's it's all of those things right
i mean if you look at uh if you look at
e-commerce you see the migration from
from desktop to mobile mobile has a
smaller real estate um that's that
effects that affects people's attention
span because there you there's you know
it's a smaller screen um sure certainly
number of competitors for sure number of
choices consumers have you know the way
the and you know this is one of the
mistakes that brands make is they say
that look we are selling a product that
there are only three other companies
that are selling this exact product so
that's our competition actually that's
not the way you should look at it the
competition is um in the simplest term
is attention anything that is vying for
attention is competition um and so when
you kind of really factor in for
attention you realize that the number of
choices that we have have just grown
exponentially and um
and because of that we have to really
kind of figure out some clever ways of
earning more of that time because until
you don't get more time there is zero
chance of you getting more conversions
yep yep makes sense makes sense right so
with that said i know you've got a nine
point checklist that we're gonna dive
deep into and hopefully share some
useful tips for our audience today so
let's let's hit it off let's let's hear
what we've got
well uh yeah absolutely so the first
thing
the first point is related to what we
just discussed so we're living in a
world of overabundance
and um and therefore marketers are are
forced to put on the marketing
microphone and make these ridiculous
claims now the thing is that
the average consumer is exposed to
maybe a thousand ads a day i think the
number is actually 5 000 but it's
unsubstantiated so i would say let's be
conservative and say a thousand ads a
day it is mathematically impossible for
me or you or any of our wonderful
listeners to
to objectively evaluate the merits of
each advertisement that comes their way
and so our brains have come up with
these clever shortcuts to navigate these
these impossible choices
and um so
that is really where this framework
comes from and step one of that
framework is people are skeptical of too
good to be true so whenever i encounter
something that smells even mildly of
being too good to be true
it actually breaks the magic for me and
so what and i think sometimes this is
all i i just want to emphasize the point
over here people will sometimes say that
you know
uh they
they might say that only the big parts
of my sales pitch i need to kind of
verify to see if they're too good to be
true i would argue
everything in your sales pitch like
every word choice even if it smells
mildly of being too good to be true you
are essentially potentially breaking the
magic and once you break the magic
you're kind of screwed so go through
your entire sales pitch and say is there
anything that sounds too good to be true
if you notice something that's too good
to be true substantiate it yeah is there
any tests or examples you can share with
us on rishi and feel free to use
customer examples or anything like that
because i know
not necessarily even just on when i'm
reading websites or ads that take me to
landing pages even if i'm speaking to
sales reps or sales reps like they like
to do are pitching me with my 10 20
inbound messages like on linkedin saying
look sam we can 10x your leads or let's
hop on a 20 minute call and we're gonna
get you three time sales for 2022 and
all these outlandish claims and they
have no idea about our business what we
do if they're even a good fit and it
just sends off your bs radar right
straight away you're thinking this is
like there's no way that they
can do that i don't even know what we do
properly so
how can we i guess what i'm getting at
is how can we not fire off bs claims in
the hope that we're going to generate
sales or leads how can we make sure that
our claims are realistic and something
that our buyers are going to consider as
a trusted source i guess
yeah i mean i think you know it really
it changes from from scenario to
scenario but i would say that all of the
listeners are aware of the claims that
we're making in our marketing so i would
say go back and visit all of those
claims um and ask yourself and i have
you know it's a principle part of how we
write copy we kind of look at all of the
claims and even the micro claims and we
say okay
for example let's say i'm let's say one
of our clients is a cup one of our
clients
one of the tests that we did was for a
company called baking steel and they
have this little steel slab that you put
in the oven and you put your pizza on
top of it and it actually the claim is
it'll make pizza in in 15 minutes that's
going to be crunchy on the outside and
soft and
fluffy on the inside and we actually
like sounds amazing and so we had to
like literally like each of those flames
15 minutes uh the fact that it is um
it's gonna make pizza better than what
you would do if you were to not use that
product um the fact that it's crunchy on
the outside and soft on the inside we
had to substantiate each of those things
instead of having the statements we
actually said
you know this sounds you know this
sounds too good to be true but here's
the science behind it and so you know
just substantiating those claims is all
we did and and that's how we had a
massive improvement in conversion rates
nice it's just kind of breaking it down
and peeling back the layers of each of
the claims that you're making
yeah and one of the trick one of the
simple tricks to actually you know it's
really this is really interesting is
that one of the tricks that we like to
use that is so effective is to actually
add a headline add a copy in your sales
pitch itself a section that says
this sound like literally you put i
sometimes put it in quotes and i'll say
uh you must be thinking how is this even
possible and then you and then you just
have a paragraph devoted to explaining
how it's possible when the consumer sees
that
basically we call this technique
narrative control which is basically
like don't let the consumer create their
own narrative so whenever they encounter
something that seems weird or too good
to be true get in front of that and just
explain it to them and so having just a
section for it tells me
as a buyer it tells me that
they have made an effort to satisfied
and therefore that checklist item gets
satisfied and so i can move on with the
remaining eight items that i have in my
mind
yeah yeah yeah cool makes sense makes
sense so is that all for number one or
should we go into the next one let's go
to the next one so the second one is
we are living in a highly specialized
world if i have
a heart condition i don't want to just
go to a doctor that can give me some
treatment i want to go to the best heart
specialist in my budget in my driving
radius like that's my criteria yeah and
so
consumers have come to expect so the the
criteria number two is
people find find expertise sexy and the
idea is that consumers expect us to be
the best in the world what we do even if
we're selling a little steel a little
steel plate that makes pizza we need to
demonstrate to them that we understand
every aspect of the steel plate and so
how do we demonstrate expertise so we
again go through your sales pitch and
every opportunity you get to demonstrate
expertise
do it
gotcha okay that's interesting so
showcasing specialism expertise around
what we do
is that excuse me is that with
typically do you find it's with facts
and figures or is there
charts or is there a specific way that
you found is good to actually showcase
that um from your experience rishi
you know um i
i would say that like my preferred way
of doing it i think what you talked
about the charts and figures and stats
and all that that that's one way of
doing it and i think it's an effective
way of doing it um i like to express
expertise
in across the entire sales page so
everything that we mentioned or as many
things as we can i'm kind of like i'm
over dramatizing it to kind of just
demonstrate the fact that there's like
i'll give you one example so we when we
do research one of the questions that we
ask clients is like when you came up
with this product how many prototypes
did you launch that failed and clients
will often say oh we did like 30
different prototypes and so i actually
use that to demonstrate expertise
because it's a way of explaining that
look we've like we've really refined it
with each improvement or sometimes times
will say you know we used to have a
version of this product two years ago
and then we made a bunch of improvements
to it and so i cannot use that to
demonstrate expertise so it's in
across the entire sales page
so it's almost like in that case you're
showing the process that they went
through yeah like look this took us
three years we've had x amount of
prototypes we've failed this many times
we've involved this many people we've
had sweated out this many tears and now
we've we've got to a point where we're
ready to bring it to you the audience in
it yeah another thing another thing we
another thing we actually do which is
really interesting is that like for
example uh we for we're working for one
of our clients we
got into one specific aspect so the one
of the parts that product is a little
mortar and we actually went into
incredible detail about the assembly of
that motor um just to kind of let the
buyer know that we know what the heck
we're talking about yeah yeah yeah so
getting specific getting kind of really
clear on the details
rather than skimming over the surface i
guess
yeah
nice like it like it let's move on
number three number three is that and
this is actually i bet there's no
copywriter that's spoken about this but
it's something that i've experimented
with extensively um which is that there
is something about the human condition
where we want to root for people that
have overcome incredible odds whether
someone is scaling a mountain or someone
has had a disability or someone has had
a setback we find those stories really i
don't know what it is about it i think
partly because we it's so relatable to
our own lives and so this idea of how do
we how do we let our buyers know that
we've gone through incredible odds and
incredible hardship to actually come up
with this invention now there are two
ways of doing this there are two story
arcs around this one is the rocky story
where you're kind of talking about like
i made a challenge for myself and i said
i'm going to do this for myself so
that's the wrong story the other story
is the david versus goliath story so
identify the big bad ugly
evil person in the industry that you're
kind of going against and see if you can
frame your story against that and um
often clients will say things like you
know like well that's not true for us
and we didn't have any you know we
didn't have any rocky moments and when
we started doing interrogation where
we're kind of like really asking about
their journey we discovered that they've
actually forgotten about the incredible
hardships that they've gone through and
all we're all we want to do is we want
to kind of let the buyer know that
because um you know it just connects us
emotionally with the buyer
yeah yeah yeah and if if we're
positioning either of these two motives
on our website
is there somewhere that it needs to sit
is this like for our about us page or is
it for somewhere else rishi
yeah so this is a great question sam so
i i think i think this is one of the
things that that i think is is it the
answer is it depends um
you know you have to like i don't know
the product specifically that each of
the listeners is trying to sell but i
would say that
for me it's the product page where i
kind of treat the product page as the
base camp as the central cathedral for
my sales page but if you want to kind of
disperse that or sprinkle that across
multiple locations you can put your home
page you can put your about this page i
think the risk the thing that you have
to really think about is you want to
make sure because this is one of the
traps that clients fall into is they'll
say that look i have this content on my
on my website yeah and what we do is we
go to the analytics and look at how many
people actually saw that content and the
number is like ridiculously small so you
want to make sure that you're placing it
at a high traffic location um and and
and so i would say all nine of these
ideas need to be expressed if the user
doesn't see it it's like a tree falling
in a forest did the tree even fall so if
you have a page where you're kind of
really talking about um your personal
struggles or your story arc and stuff
like that but no one is seeing it then
then you're just as that's just just as
good as not having that content in the
first place yeah smart make sure it's
it's got a bit of website traffic so
actually look into the analytics to
check that that's that's smart um
without going off on too much of a
rabbit hole we um
often when i come across sites about us
paige i don't know what you think rishi
but a heck of a lot of them are bland
plain boring jargon fueled just sent me
to sleep so ours was guilty actually
until about a month ago at webb choice
we just put generic company info and
then we thought well this doesn't tell
any anyone anything let's actually dig
deep into the story of how felix our
co-founder brought up the company why he
brought it who we serve the problems we
fix so at least we can actually try and
resonate with with people rather than
just filling up a load of tech like we
do x y and z um this is what we do and
then you know just generic stuff so
rather putting a bit of heart a bit of
story a bit of storytelling and a bit
about the typical problems and
challenges we overcome so yeah some good
tips there um
like that like that let's move forward
so the next one is that we are
fascinated by surprising details so this
is a really interesting interesting one
so this this
there's so much trivia that is available
uh about um
about any product category you can think
about uh there's so much research that's
out there so for example if you're
working for a foot brand that sells
comfort shoes well i would i would look
for interesting facts about foot comfort
i would look for interesting facts about
foot pain i would look at the history of
of of shoes and stuff like that if it's
an air purifier i would do the same
thing about the benefits of clean air
indoor air quality versus outdoor air
quality and i would collect a whole
bunch of interesting facts so this
actually does a couple of things
the one thing it does is it it actually
ties in to point number two which is we
find expertise sexy so it actually
demonstrates devastating expertise right
if i'm selling a pair of shoes and i'm
talking about in great detail about the
the mechanics of how feet move that
tells the buyer that these guys know
what the hell they're talking about but
the reason why we use it is we sprinkle
it across our sales pitch see one of the
paradoxes of paradoxes
paradoxes of sales is that i know i
can't close the sale in 30 seconds and
therefore i need to get the buyer to
read my whole story because that's the
only way i can actually convince them
about what it is that we do the problem
is that my whole story is pretty long
and this is one of the traps that brands
fall into they say well we want to limit
our sales pitch to one paragraph which
is stupidity because then you're falling
for the same trap but the alternative of
saying that we wanted to be seven
paragraphs long is a is is is the right
choice but there is a challenge here
because the consumer it's a it's
difficult for the consumer to read seven
paragraphs worth of content so what we
do is we sprinkle these interesting
facts at the at each critical point and
what they do is it's almost like a
kitkat break you you see something
fascinating and you're like oh my god
like you've it's like infotainment
you've been educated and you are kind of
excited about it and you and what i
really like about it is it we're giving
them free value without them actually
having to pay you know so they're not
even paying the product they're getting
free value and that little break gives
them the motivation to read the next
paragraph and what i know is that if i
can get the buyer to go all the way to
the bottom of my sales page
statistically speaking i'm gonna close
them
got it nice nice yeah i was gonna ask is
there
is there like a perfect amount but i'm
sure the answer is is gonna be it
depends in terms of laying down facts
unusual bits and pieces of information
like you say sprinkling across your if
your product your service page copy to
really encourage prospects users visits
to your website to carry on reading the
pitch rather than just getting bored is
there like
a sweet spot of how many facts or
figures that we should include or is it
very dependent on what you're doing and
i guess the at the same time the price
tag of what you're offering and how long
you need people to stay on page
yeah i mean we i i typically like to do
like around five uh you know for each
sales pitch
okay yeah something like that as a
standard
nice okay cool we continue
next yes absolutely the next one point
number five so we're at the mid mid mark
uh point number five is that we are
visual animals fifty percent of our uh
cortex is devoted to image processing um
and so reading a
bunch of copy is actually way less
persuasive than actually reading copy
that is evoking a visual in my mind
because visuals get embedded deeper in
the brain so the way you invoke a visual
is you don't have to rely on videos and
photographs even though you can you rely
on those things you can actually create
those visuals
through writing itself so one of the
mechanics
mechanisms that we like to use is we
like to use analogies we love analogies
analogies so for example if you're
trying to explain how your saf software
works
use an analogy of something that
consumers can relate to so maybe you can
talk about an insurance policy or you
can talk about the the benefits of going
to a specialist doctor whatever that
example is that because a lot of times
brands actually use these analogies for
their internal communication um so if
you have a pillow that has this
incredible cooling quality maybe
internally you're using an allergy of
like it's like um
it's like a it's like it's like sitting
in a freezer maybe that's the analogy
you're using so i would actually use
that in the copy itself uh and because
what that does is it immediately creates
a visual in the mind of the buyer and
those visuals embed deeper in our
psychology and
you know and therefore it's more
persuasive but you can also create and
you could also create a visual through
contrast so if you're trying to talk
about something talk about the absence
of that so that creates a visual as well
you're doing it through writing but that
you know if you're like for example an
insurance company you're going to talk
about the absence of something happening
and you don't have insurance and that
creates a visual as well
yeah yeah yeah so we
feel free to correct me if i'm totally
off base here but are we trying to get
so we've talked about using facts and
figures and so we've talked about using
logic are we now trying to get people a
bit more emotional
by using analogies in our copy and
trying to say look this is we're trying
to give them visuals as well so in like
you say whether that is a pillow that
makes people think they're in a freezer
or makes them think they're sleeping on
a bed of feathers or whatever it may be
so they get these visuals in their mind
um
and like i might say for web choice seo
is often like you're running a marathon
um or you're you're looking for a
mortgage it's a long term investment to
get that top spot on the the pioneer be
the pioneer of google and drive all that
traffic and that inbound inquiries and
leads and sales and all that good stuff
is is that is that right or is that not
quite it
well it's it's a very good observation
so here's how i would kind of clarify
what you're saying so i would say that
all nine of them are designed
uh to appeal to the subconscious
emotional side of the buyer even even
even the even cases when we're using the
facts and figures we're doing it to
appeal to their subconscious side um
so i would say you know from my
perspective they're all designed to
appeal to their emotional side um
sometimes we use facts and figures you
know yeah so the answer is that you know
i think you're you're it's it's a little
bit of i kind of sometimes look at these
tactics
as being first cousins they share a lot
of dna with each other like even like
interesting facts and find expertise
sexy we already talked about how they
can be kind of correlated ideas
but we intentionally kept them separate
because we want to force the copywriter
to say that
was i able to find an interesting fact
now that interesting fact could also
demonstrate expertise um similarly for
visuals there are there are many
different families of visuals but we
want to make sure that there was a line
item that said there needs to be
something multiple things that evoke
visuals on this page
so yeah so they're all designed to evoke
connect with the psychology the the
emotional side
yeah and should we think about literal
visuals as well so that literally like
images videos
whatever infographic yeah i i'm a fan of
if you have those assets i think you
should certainly use it but i'm not a
fan of creating those assets for solving
the visual piece because it can be
expensive
i think what i love about words is you
can actually you can you can words are
malleable and you can adjust them and
tweak them so my recommendation is
do experimentation with the words itself
and when you come up with an analogy
that you've tested and you have
statistical data that is like this is
this is really resonating then by all
means invest in making a visual or a
video to to further accentuate that that
analogy
have you found any tips any secrets any
hacks to create that analogy from your
experience
well i mean
a lot of it just comes you know i mean
ultimately all products are actually
doing very basic jobs they're either
helping us make more money or they're
helping us save money and so that right
there
uh simplifies things i you know i don't
think there's i mean i think a lot of it
is like you give me any exam like i love
to use the analogy of a doctor if i'm
trying to if i'm trying to you know sell
a product that has uh when i'm trying to
position myself as an expert so that's a
good analogy i love the idea of
insurance that's a great analogy
so there are certain families of
analogies we like we tend to kind of
gravitate towards but often what we find
is and this is really the most effective
hack is to actually talk to if you are
dealing with the client in my case i
work with clients but if you are working
with your team maybe talk to your team
and see if there's any analogy that
they're using uh
to communicate with their family this is
a great question right so a lot of times
we're doing things that
our families don't understand so we we
have to come up with analogies to
explain it to them ask your team what is
the analogy that you use and you'll be
amazed at some of the very clever
analogies people are using to express
you know what you guys actually do
yeah yeah that's that's smart that's
smart i often
say stuff like um
if you've got a sales team you can kind
of use listen to those guys see what
they're saying to prospects to customers
on calls
how they're describing certain things
because often that kind of stuff's
really useful and can be used in your
marketing copy so that's a smart move
cool
let's move forward number six is on the
way yeah number six is here to stay um
so shoppers this is actually one of my
favorite ones and i would say it's one
of my most it's one of the most
important ones is that ultimately
when we are selling and i'll talk about
it it's basically we need motivation to
break habits uh but let's kind of set
some context over here
when a consumer is buying something they
are doing one of three things they are
either
moving from a competitor to your product
or
they are moving from a workaround to
your product so for example peloton
if i was if i was being pitch peloton
and i was someone who bikes outside well
i already have a workaround i bike
outside that's my that's my workaround
so i can i'm bypassing the sales pitch
for peloton and the third option is
non-consumption so i just don't work out
at all um and the thing is that this is
one of the challenges is that if you
construct the most beautiful sales pitch
in the world but you actually don't give
the buyer a path to go from where they
are to where you want them to be then
that sales which is meaningless you're
kind of relying on the motivation of the
buyer to actually say screw all this i'm
going to just give out my credit card
and buy the product they typically don't
have that degree of they don't have that
degree of motivation
so what we do is we we inject that
motivation in the copy so in the case of
peloton i would say something like you
know riding a bike outside is incredibly
good idea except when it snows except
when you have an accident except when
the bike tire is flat and by doing that
you're actually giving them you're
giving them arsenal to say you know what
i'm going to fire the bike so i can hire
peloton
yeah yeah yeah i like it i really really
really like that so
putting in front of your buyers
the problems or the frustrations that
might have that they might have with how
they're getting the job done right now
and what's ever relevant to your service
your product and then saying look
there's a better way
one of the one of the clients that we
work with is uh they sell long-term food
storage it's a very interesting niche um
so it costs like thousands of dollars
and you're buying food supply for like
six months and you're putting in your
house because for the uncertainty of the
fact that sometime in the future there
might be some food uncertainty and you
might need this so the problem is that
the consumer no matter how much we
persuade the buyer the consumer can end
the end the conversation by saying i
just don't think this is going to happen
and so how do we motivate them to
actually invest this money uh for some
uncertain future event so we added copy
that says
nine out of ten times you would not need
to use this kit and just by doing that
we've injected doubt their mind and now
they're saying like what about one hour
or ten time so i'm giving them the
motivation to kind of say let's get get
out of the stupid habit of yours of
assuming things won't be bad so yeah
that's a practical way of kind of
looking at it let's move on to the next
one which is um people love personalized
experiences
and i think this is a really interesting
one as well we're living in not only are
we living in a hyper competitive world
we are living in a world where consumers
want to buy things that are uniquely
made for them that uniquely connect with
them when you know the the first era of
of industrialization was was was mass
consumer goods companies like procter
and gamble and companies like um you
know across the pond um
uh
you know unity were you know these are
giant conglomerates that churn out a
crap ton of products and the whole idea
was that you know you trust their brand
so all their products you trust as well
but consumers are now very kind of you
know they they have very distinct tastes
and your taste in in music is very
different than mine and we don't want to
listen to
you know
elton john uh you know he's he's got
lots of broad appeal but we want to
listen to really things that are very
specific to us and so the thing is that
that's what consumers want now the
challenge is as a copywriter how do i
how do i how do i really personalize
this now there are many mechanisms that
we have to personalize the copy i won't
get into that right now but i want to
just say one simple thing one way of
personalizing it is to
um
is to
it's personalization for me is the
feeling that the reader gets when they
read the sales page so there are many
things you can do to for example i'll
give you an example so let's say we're
working with a sports bra
and it's a sports bra brand so the first
thing i would ask myself is like what
problem
would a woman have
if she didn't use a sports bra well one
of the things about about the sports bra
is that it gives you the right support
system and
that means without a sports bra this is
a real problem it's also something that
you know so what i'm trying to do is i'm
trying to kind of visualize my customer
i'm trying to visualize her pain points
it's also something that it's difficult
to go into a store and buy because you
don't have a conversation with someone
so i would kind of use all of those
those insights about the buyer to
construct a salesperson when the buy
when she is reading it she's like oh my
god these guys understand me and that's
what i mean by personalization like make
the person feel like it's uniquely
written for them even though it's not
but create that feeling
yeah and how have you found it's best to
i guess still those ideas still those
insights and understand how to make
something personal
so you know we we have a technique uh
called active participation and it's i
think it's revolutionary um so what we
do is i'll give you a great analogy i'll
give you a great example um
it's a little technical but it's a
beautiful beautiful insight
and the idea is that imagine if you are
selling a juicer i'm a big fan of sales
so if you're selling a juicer i try to
think about like how would a salesperson
actually do it on
at a retail store and what the
salesperson would actually do
is he would engage or she would engage
you in a conversation to understand
about
understand how price sensitive you are
how long you've been looking for a
juicer what type of you know you know
have you considered other brands and in
that conversation you're able to
actually identify and isolate
specifically the perfect juicer for this
person so by the end of that sales call
you actually have the right
recommendation for them on the website
on the web this doesn't happen you
actually come to a website and we have
the exact same sales page for everyone
so one way of doing personalization is
to actually ask when the user is going
through the sales page at the end of
paragraph number two ask them a simple
question like have you ever bought this
type of product before that's a really
important distinction because people
that are familiar with like for someone
who's never bought a laptop before is
going to behave very differently than
someone who's been buying laptops every
two years and you need to personalize
the sales page for those two scenarios
and so that's one way in which you can
apply personalization is by giving them
buttons that they can click on to
suggest who they are and and then yeah
yeah yeah like a personalized question
series to guide them to the relevant
product of service yeah the only the
only catch here is that if the user
feels it's a wizard they will ignore it
so it's almost like think of it like if
i go to a retail store and the sales guy
comes up to me and says i'm gonna tell
you i'm gonna tell you the perfect
blender but before you do anything i
have ten questions for you that's really
not how humans conversate so don't do it
that way but yes apply that same
conversational tone to extract that
information
yeah yeah yeah cool um
number eight sir
we like we like to know that we've
stumbled onto something rare nobody
wants to buy a commodity uh i want to
buy something that sam doesn't have
access to i want to buy something that
my neighbor can't get get and this is
the reason why this whole idea of
exclusive clubs is so alluring um so how
do we how do we evoke that feeling so
one of the tricks that we like to use
and it's a really interesting trick is
we will in the product page we will say
something like
only four percent of people that came to
our website ever got to this page and it
makes the reader feel like holy cow i'm
like in the super select group um so you
know how do you and this is very
gimmicky but think of other ways in
which you can kind of like evoke for the
buyer this idea that you know you're
accessing something that another another
trick we use is we say something like
if you had come to our website so like
for example if i'm working for dyson um
and they've just launched their latest
model i would actually start the copy by
saying
had you come to the website two months
ago you would have not seen this product
because we hadn't even launched it by
then and that creates a feeling like oh
my god i just stumbled onto something
rare so
yeah yeah i get it and is that the same
thing of when you go on perhaps some
shopping sites and they say like only
five of these left or
someone in also you get the other thing
on some income stores where someone from
this town and this city just just
purchased one of these so it's and you
see it quite a lot when you're buying
plane tickets and things like that or
hotel rooms and on your trip advisors
your airbnbs is it that kind of thing or
is it something a bit different yeah
it's the same kind of thing i think the
thing to keep in mind is that this is
really important point is that uh so
we're going through evolution so what's
happening is it's like spy versus spy uh
the retailer is getting is is getting
sophisticated then the consumer is
getting sophisticated then the retailer
has to become even more sophisticated so
that mechanism you're talking about
i think there's a lot of consumers when
it first came out like seven years ago
it was really novel and people would say
like oh my god this is like amazing
social proof now i think people ignore
it because they know it's kind of
gimmicky so yeah i think you have to
like yes you need to use that exact same
mechanism but just make sure that the
consumer doesn't look at it as a gimmick
yeah nice summary cool
number nine final final point
i'm sad because now we're coming to the
end of the conversation but i i hope
this is a good one this is actually a
really important one so imagine if you
have a sales pitch and your and the
reader is starts on the top goes to the
middle works their way right to the
bottom
what's happening is that as they're
doing that
negative thoughts are coming in there in
their mind in fact our listeners and you
even right now you might not be aware of
it but as i've been talking you've had a
whole bunch of negative thoughts that
have come through your mind you know i
don't believe this this makes sense
whatever it is and the thing is that
as a copywriter first of all that's
unavoidable so that's fine but as a
copywriter i need to anticipate those
negative thoughts because if you get to
the bottom of the sales pit which is the
end of the movie and you still have
those unresolved questions you know what
the consumer does the consumer defers
judgement so the consumer will say you
know what i would have all the
information i need to buy this uh air
purifier today i'll i'll come back later
on
when i have all the information and
guess what once they leave they ain't
coming back
yeah so we're talking about
leaving questions unanswered are we
yeah exactly yeah okay we're talking
specifically about negative negative
thoughts uh so
you know but yes yes unanswered negative
questions
what ways have you found it best to
avoid this
well i think this is this happens
throughout the this happens so if you
think about it the first one we talked
about which is too good to be true and
the last one we're talking about they're
actually diametrically opposite too good
to be true is where the market is making
a claim about something that seem that
is being too positive uh negative
thoughts is about something that is
negative and so one classic example of
this is that if you have a product and
you've looked at your competitors and
there is a feature on your product that
there is a feature that your competitors
have but your product doesn't have so
let's say that you know there's that one
feature that all of your competitors
tend to have but your product doesn't
have that feature a lot of times brands
will in this scenario they will try and
not talk about this feature because
they're like you know hey
um
we don't have it um
but it's still a negative thought in the
mind of the buyer the buyer is pretty
sophisticated they've gone to these
other websites so what we'd like to do
is we like to kind of get in front of
this and say are you wondering why we
don't have this feature here's why and
then we basically explain why we don't
have that feature and that's one way of
busting objections
got it got it is having faq sections and
things like that a similar kind of thing
yeah that's that's faq is a great place
to do it again my only concern is how
many people are actually seeing it as
long as you can make sure it's highly
visible it is exactly the same mechanism
yeah yeah yeah good point um
where does
social proof come into this we've not
talked about a great deal i think some
of the points that we've talked about
have brushed on it but what about
customer reviews testimonials case
studies customers you are you know what
sam that's very astute of you and
this might actually be a conversation
for a future future uh discussion
so i actually
do not like social proof at all uh and
i'll tell you why
and it's because first of all i hate
customer reviews and i'll tell you why
imagine if you have a you're a brand and
you have 5 000 reviews
do you know that the mo can i i will ask
you a question what do you think are our
is the most influential review
for the buyer that's in the review
section
the most influential review so if if i'm
looking at a product or service and then
i check a review what one's going to tip
me over the edge to buy is that what you
mean what what review do you think
you'll be focused on
ah well yeah it's going to be negative
isn't it well not only negative it's
going to be actually the most recent
review the most recent set of reviews
are the ones that you should do and the
problem is that i could have 3 000
positive reviews and the last four
bloody reviews were neutral and i'm
humped
and i hate the fact that i hate the fact
i don't like relying on that uncertainty
um so that's the reason why first of all
i can't control the reviews anyway so
it's not part of our copywriting process
so that's a very good observation we
actually don't use any social proof in
our copywriting
primarily because most brands are very
good at social proof and i'm trying to
identify the nine things that they don't
focus on uh versus saying here are the
20 things that we should all be doing
yeah it's an interesting conversation
right and we could talk about this for a
long time but without going in too deep
i think you're quite
you're quite a factor in the sense that
social proof can very much be
manipulated
i there's a lot of dodgy review websites
out there where you can literally amend
reviews um
and yeah customer testimonials all that
kind of stuff can be tweaked can be
changed so i get your point whether i
agree with you is a different subject um
but no it's interesting
no i think and i think you can you can
pick up on some reviews and look i'm
what i'm trying to i guess my my basic
point is this that if you have an
incredible like i just i just did a
review for a website where uh
venus williams was their spokesperson it
was buried somewhere in the website i
that's amazing social proof i brought
right to the i would bring it right to
the product page i'm not opposed to
using something an asset that's
available to me all i'm saying is that
brands typically are pretty good at
using social proof i wanted to focus on
the nine things that we actually don't
focus on enough so i think that's the
reason why i've been included in the
nine list i like it i like it nice one
rishi anything to anything you'd like to
add to end on before we wrap things up
no i think this has been uh you know i i
hope sam i mean i hope i know we didn't
we didn't uh we obviously wanted to keep
this uh conversational so you you and i
didn't go through the nine items before
i hope i hope there weren't any
unanswered questions for you you know i
breathe and eat and sleep this stuff so
sometimes i'm i'm prone to talk about
them in a way that makes sense in my
head but don't make sense to other
people so um i hope that wasn't the case
yeah yeah yeah enjoyed the conversation
so i think we've you've given some good
value to the audience to myself and it's
been a been a good bit of back and forth
so with that rishi please do share more
about how everyone tuning can learn from
you connect with you a bit more about
your business and the best way to get in
touch with your good self
i am
very active on linkedin uh so if you
search for my name rishi r-i-s-h-i my
last name
r-a-w-a-t on linkedin
uh hopefully you'll find me right away
um i also have a newsletter
uh a buyer psychology newsletter so what
one of the one of the advantages of my
job is that i spent 20 of my time just
wandering the internet trying to find
some clever little marketers somewhere
doing something really clever that some
of the big boys haven't found because
remember once the big boys see it they
will exploit the crap out of it and then
it no longer works so i need to kind of
be a like i'm almost like a
an explorer exploring these unexplored
lands so i'm on these like really
obscure small websites that nobody ever
really has heard about and i'm paying
attention to some of the marketing
things that they're doing and what i do
is i collect those ideas and once a week
i share them because i've already got
them i share them with my subscribers if
you're interested in those kind of like
really quirky esoteric but very visual
examples because i'll take a screenshot
literally and you can then just
literally copy it swipe file um you can
sign up for my newsletter and you can
get that by going to a very special url
there's no other way to get to it but
it's frictionless dash
commerce
frictionless commerce dot com forward
slash
join j-o-i-n
and if you go there you can sign up for
the newsletter and then once a week
you'll get my
garbage from my brain right to your
inbox
sounds delightful you've sold me already
so we'll uh we'll put all those links
over on the website episode show notes
over at
businessgrowth.marketing and with that
rishi i want to thank you once again
very enjoyable conversation sir i have
to have you back on the near future yeah
thanks emma i loved it thank you
no worries man as always if you enjoyed
today's episode hit that subscribe
button and why not leave us a quick
rating on apple podcast if you're tuning
in from there
and we introduce leaders each and every
week to write actual tips across
marketing across sales to grow your
business and grow your revenue and with
that we'll catch you on the next one